Software License Agreement

The two licenses set forth in Sections A and B are separate and
distinct legal agreements. Section A governs the use of the 
JAVA 2 PLATFORM STANDARD EDITION DEVELOPMENT KIT 5.0 and
OTHER SOFTWARE IN NETBEANS and Section B governs
the use of the NetBeans software.


Section A: 

Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
and ENTITLEMENT for SOFTWARE

A. ENTITLEMENTS for SOFTWARE

Licensee/Company: Entity receiving Software.

Effective Date: Date of delivery of the Software to You.

ENTITLEMENT FOR JAVA 2 PLATFORM STANDARD EDITION DEVELOPMENT KIT

Software: JAVA 2 PLATFORM STANDARD EDITION DEVELOPMENT KIT 5.0

License Term:  Perpetual (subject to termination under the SLA)

Licensed Unit: Software Copy

Licensed unit Count: Unlimited

Permitted Uses:   

1. You may reproduce and use the Software for Individual,
Commercial, or Research and Instructional Use for the
purposes of designing, developing, testing, and running Your
applets and applications that run on a Java-enabled general
purpose desktop computers and servers ("Programs").

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and
restrictions and exceptions set forth in the Software's
documentation, You may reproduce and distribute Software
(and also portions of Software identified as Redistributable
in the documentation accompanying Software), provided that:

(a) you distribute the Software complete and unmodified and
only bundled as part of Your Programs, 

(b) your Programs add significant and primary functionality
to the Software, 

(c) you distribute Software for the sole purpose of running
your Programs,

(d) you do not distribute additional software intended to
replace any component(s) of the Software,

(e) you do not remove or alter any proprietary legends or
notices contained in or on the Software.
 
(f) you only distribute the Software subject to a license
agreement that protects Sun's interests consistent with the
terms contained in this Agreement, and

(g) you agree to defend and indemnify Sun and its licensors
from and against any damages, costs, liabilities, settlement
amounts and/or expenses  (including attorneys' fees)
incurred in connection with any claim, lawsuit or action by
any third party that arises or results from the use or
distribution of any and all Programs and/or Software. 

3. Java Technology Restrictions.  You may not create,
modify, or change the behavior of, or authorize your
licensees to create, modify, or change the behavior of,
classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way
identified as "java", "javax", "sun" or similar convention
as specified by Sun in any naming convention designation.

4. Distribution by Publishers. Additional licenses for
publishers are granted in the Software's documentation.

ENTITLEMENT FOR OTHER SOFTWARE IN NETBEANS

Software:
 
-PLUGIN FOR SUN JAVA SYSTEM APPLICATION SERVER PLATFORM
EDITION TO NETBEANS IDE
-JAX-RPC 1.1.3
-JAXP 1.3.1
-SAAJ 1.2.2
-JavaMail 1.3.1
-JavaServer Faces 1.1_01
-Java Help 2.0
-J2EE Deployment 1.1 SPECIFICATION INTERFACE CLASSES
-Javac compiler 5.0
-Java Metadata Interface (JMI) 1.0 SPECIFICATION INTERFACE
CLASSES
-JMX 1.2
License Term:  Perpetual (subject to termination under the SLA)

Licensed Unit: Software Copy

Licensed unit Count: Unlimited

Permitted Uses:   

1. You may reproduce and use the Software for Research and
Instructional, Individual, and Commercial Uses for the
purposes of designing, developing, testing, and running your
applets or applications ("Programs") provided that for a
particular version of the Java platform, any executable
output generated by a Java compiler contained in the
Software (i) is compiled from source code that conforms to
the corresponding version of the OEM Java Language
Specification; (ii) is in the class file format defined by
the corresponding version of the OEM Java Virtual Machine
Specification; and (iii) executes properly on a reference
runtime, as specified by Sun, associated with such version
of the Java platform.  

2. You may only use the Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition
(J2EE), Platform Specification in accordance with the J2EE
Specification License set forth in the DistributionREADME.

3. Java Technology Restrictions.  You may not create,
modify, or change the behavior of, or authorize your
licensees to create, modify, or change the behavior of,
classes, interfaces, or subpackages that are in any way
identified as "java", "javax", "sun" or similar convention
as specified by Sun in any naming convention designation.

4. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and
restrictions and exceptions set forth in the Software's
documentation, You may reproduce and distribute the Software
(and also portions of Software identified as Redistributable
in the documentation accompanying Software), provided that
you:

(a) distribute the Software complete and unmodified and only
bundled as part of your Programs,

(b) do not distribute additional software intended to
replace any component(s) of the Software,

(c) do not remove or alter any proprietary legends or
notices contained in or on the Software.
 
(d) only distribute the Software subject to a license
agreement that protects Sun's interests consistent with the
terms contained in this Agreement, and

(e) agree to defend and indemnify Sun and its licensors from
and against any damages, costs, liabilities, settlement
amounts and/or expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred
in connection with any claim, lawsuit or action by any third
party that arises or results from the use or distribution of
any and all Programs and/or Software.

B. SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

READ THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY
BEFORE OPENING SOFTWARE MEDIA PACKAGE. BY OPENING SOFTWARE
MEDIA PACKAGE, YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF
YOU ARE ACCESSING SOFTWARE ELECTRONICALLY, INDICATE YOUR
ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS BY SELECTING THE "ACCEPT" (OR
EQUIVALENT) BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO
NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED
SOFTWARE TO YOUR PLACE OF PURCHASE FOR A REFUND OR, IF
SOFTWARE IS ACCESSED ELECTRONICALLY, SELECT THE "DECLINE"
(OR EQUIVALENT) BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU
HAVE SEPARATELY AGREED TO LICENSE TERMS ("MASTER TERMS") FOR
YOUR LICENSE TO THIS SOFTWARE, THEN SECTIONS 1-6 OF THIS
AGREEMENT ("SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE TERMS") SHALL SUPPLEMENT
AND SUPERSEDE THE MASTER TERMS IN RELATION TO THIS SOFTWARE.

1. Definitions.

(a) "Entitlement" means the collective set of applicable
documents authorized by Sun evidencing your obligation to
pay associated fees (if any) for the license, associated
Services, and the authorized scope of use of Software under
this Agreement.

(b) "Licensed Unit" means the unit of measure by which your
use of Software and/or Service is licensed, as described in
your Entitlement.

(c) "Permitted Use" means the licensed Software use(s)
authorized in this Agreement as specified in your
Entitlement. The Permitted Use for any bundled Sun software
not specified in your Entitlement will be evaluation use as
provided in Section 3.

(d) "Service" means the service(s) that Sun or its delegate
will provide, if any, as selected in your Entitlement and as
further described in the applicable service listings at
www.sun.com/service/servicelist.

(e) "Software" means the Sun software described in your
Entitlement. Also, certain software may be included for
evaluation use under Section 3. 

(f) "You" and "Your" means the individual or legal entity
specified in the Entitlement, or for evaluation purposes,
the entity performing the evaluation.

2. License Grant and Entitlement.

Subject to the terms of your Entitlement, Sun grants you a
nonexclusive, nontransferable limited license to use
Software for its Permitted Use for the license term. Your
Entitlement will specify (a) Software licensed, (b) the
Permitted Use, (c) the license term, and (d) the Licensed
Units. 

Additionally, if your Entitlement includes Services, then it
will also specify the (e) Service and (f) service term. 

If your rights to Software or Services are limited in
duration and the date such rights begin is other than the
purchase date, your Entitlement will provide that beginning
date(s).

The Entitlement may be delivered to you in various ways
depending on the manner in which you obtain Software and
Services, for example, the Entitlement may be provided in
your receipt, invoice or your contract with Sun or
authorized Sun reseller. It may also be in electronic format
if you download Software.

3. Permitted Use.

As selected in your Entitlement, one or more of the
following Permitted Uses will apply to your use of Software.
Unless you have an Entitlement that expressly permits it,
you may not use Software for any of the other Permitted
Uses. If you don't have an Entitlement, or if your
Entitlement doesn't cover additional software delivered to
you, then such software is for your Evaluation Use.

(a) Evaluation Use. You may evaluate Software internally for
a period of 90 days from your first use. 

(b) Research and Instructional Use. You may use Software
internally to design, develop and test, and also to provide
instruction on such uses.

(c) Individual Use. You may use Software internally for
personal, individual use.

(d) Commercial Use. You may use Software internally for your
own commercial purposes. 

(e) Service Provider Use. You may make Software
functionality accessible (but not by providing Software
itself or through outsourcing services) to your end users in
an extranet deployment, but not to your affiliated companies
or to government agencies.

4. Licensed Units.

Your Permitted Use is limited to the number of Licensed
Units stated in your Entitlement. If you require additional
Licensed Units, you will need additional Entitlement(s).

5. Restrictions.

(a) The copies of Software provided to you under this
Agreement is licensed, not sold, to you by Sun. Sun reserves
all rights not expressly granted. (b) You may make a single
archival copy of Software, but otherwise may not copy,
modify, or distribute Software. However if the Sun
documentation accompanying Software lists specific portions
of Software, such as header files, class libraries,
reference source code, and/or redistributable files, that
may be handled differently, you may do so only as provided
in the Sun documentation. (c) You may not rent, lease, lend
or encumber Software. (d) Unless enforcement is prohibited
by applicable law, you may not decompile, or reverse
engineer Software. (e) The terms and conditions of this
Agreement will apply to any Software updates, provided to
you at Sun's discretion, that replace and/or supplement the
original Software, unless such update contains a separate
license. (f) You may not publish or provide the results of
any benchmark or comparison tests run on Software to any
third party without the prior written consent of Sun. (g)
Software is confidential and copyrighted. (h) Unless
otherwise specified, if Software is delivered with embedded
or bundled software that enables functionality of Software,
you may not use such software on a stand-alone basis or use
any portion of such software to interoperate with any
program(s) other than Software. (i) Software may contain
programs that perform automated collection of system data
and/or automated software updating services. System data
collected through such programs may be used by Sun, its
subcontractors, and its service delivery partners for the
purpose of providing you with remote system services and/or
improving Sun's software and systems. (j) Software is not
designed, licensed or intended for use in the design,
construction, operation or maintenance of any nuclear
facility and Sun and its licensors disclaim any express or
implied warranty of fitness for such uses. (k) No right,
title or interest in or to any trademark, service mark, logo
or trade name of Sun or its licensors is granted under this
Agreement.

6. Java Compatibility and Open Source.

Software may contain Java technology. You may not create
additional classes to, or modifications of, the Java
technology, except under compatibility requirements
available under a separate agreement available at
www.java.net.

Sun supports and benefits from the global community of open
source developers, and thanks the community for its
important contributions and open standards-based technology,
which Sun has adopted into many of its products.

Please note that portions of Software may be provided with
notices and open source licenses from such communities and
third parties that govern the use of those portions, and any
licenses granted hereunder do not alter any rights and
obligations you may have under such open source licenses,
however, the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of
liability provisions in this Agreement will apply to all
Software in this distribution.

7. Term and Termination. 

The license and service term are set forth in your
Entitlement(s). Your rights under this Agreement will
terminate immediately without notice from Sun if you
materially breach it or take any action in derogation of
Sun's and/or its licensors' rights to Software. Sun may
terminate this Agreement should any Software become, or in
Sun's reasonable opinion likely to become, the subject of a
claim of intellectual property infringement or trade secret
misappropriation. Upon termination, you will cease use of,
and destroy, Software and confirm compliance in writing to
Sun. Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 9-15 will survive termination
of the Agreement.

8. Limited Warranty. 

Sun warrants to you that for a period of 90 days from the
date of purchase, as evidenced by a copy of the receipt, the
media on which Software is furnished (if any) will be free
of defects in materials and workmanship under normal use.
Except for the foregoing, Software is provided "AS IS". Your
exclusive remedy and Sun's entire liability under this
limited warranty will be at Sun's option to replace Software
media or refund the fee paid for Software. Some states do
not allow limitations on certain implied warranties, so the
above may not apply to you. This limited warranty gives you
specific legal rights. You may have others, which vary from
state to state.

9. Disclaimer of Warranty. 

UNLESS SPECIFIED IN THIS AGREEMENT, ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY
IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED,
EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THESE DISCLAIMERS ARE HELD TO BE
LEGALLY INVALID. 

10. Limitation of Liability. 

TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR
ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT OR
DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF
LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR
INABILITY TO USE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. In no event will Sun's
liability to you, whether in contract, tort (including
negligence), or otherwise, exceed the amount paid by you for
Software under this Agreement. The foregoing limitations
will apply even if the above stated warranty fails of its
essential purpose. Some states do not allow the exclusion of
incidental or consequential damages, so some of the terms
above may not be applicable to you. 

11. Export Regulations. 

All Software, documents, technical data, and any other
materials delivered under this Agreement are subject to U.S.
export control laws and may be subject to export or import
regulations in other countries. You agree to comply strictly
with these laws and regulations and acknowledge that you
have the responsibility to obtain any licenses to export,
re-export, or import as may be required after delivery to
you. 

12. U.S. Government Restricted Rights. 

If Software is being acquired by or on behalf of the U.S.
Government or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or
subcontractor (at any tier), then the Government's rights in
Software and accompanying documentation will be only as set
forth in this Agreement; this is in accordance with 48 CFR
227.7201 through 227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense (DOD)
acquisitions) and with 48 CFR 2.101 and 12.212 (for non-DOD
acquisitions). 

13. Governing Law. 

Any action related to this Agreement will be governed by
California law and controlling U.S. federal law. No choice
of law rules of any jurisdiction will apply. 

14. Severability. 

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable, this Agreement will remain in effect with the
provision omitted, unless omission would frustrate the
intent of the parties, in which case this Agreement will
immediately terminate.

15. Integration. 

This Agreement, including any terms contained in your
Entitlement, is the entire agreement between you and Sun
relating to its subject matter. It supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals,
representations and warranties and prevails over any
conflicting or additional terms of any quote, order,
acknowledgment, or other communication between the parties
relating to its subject matter during the term of this
Agreement. No modification of this Agreement will be
binding, unless in writing and signed by an authorized
representative of each party.

Please contact Sun Microsystems, Inc. 4150 Network Circle,
Santa Clara, California 95054 if you have questions.


Section B:

NetBeans software is developed and distributed under the Sun
Public License (SPL).  NetBeans software also makes use of
additional libraries made available for use and distribution
by other parties, including open-source projects.


SUN PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1.0

1. Definitions.

1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise
making the Covered Code available to a third party.

1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or
contributes to the creation of Modifications.

1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the
Original Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor,
and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.

1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications
or the combination of the Original Code and Modifications,
in each case including portions thereof and corresponding
documentation released with the source code.

1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism
generally accepted in the software development community for
the electronic transfer of data.

1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than
Source Code.

1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity
identified as the Initial Developer in the Source Code
notice required by Exhibit A.

1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code
or portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of
this License.

1.8. "License" means this document.

1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the
maximum extent possible, whether at the time of the initial
grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights
conveyed herein.

1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from
the substance or structure of either the Original Code or
any previous Modifications. When Covered Code is released as
a series of files, a Modification is:

A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
containing Original Code or previous Modifications.

B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code
or previous Modifications.

1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software
code which is described in the Source Code notice required
by Exhibit A as Original Code, and which, at the time of its
release under this License is not already Covered Code
governed by this License.

1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned
or hereafter acquired, including without limitation, method,
process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by
grantor.

1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered
Code for making modifications to it, including all modules
it contains, plus any associated documentation, interface
definition files, scripts used to control compilation and
installation of an Executable, or source code differential
comparisons against either the Original Code or another well
known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice.
The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form,
provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving
software is widely available for no charge.

1.12. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal
entity exercising rights under, and complying with all of
the terms of, this License or a future version of this
License issued under Section 6.1. For legal entities, "You"
includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with You. For purposes of this
definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares
or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. Source Code License.

2.1 The Initial Developer Grant.

The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party
intellectual property claims:

(a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent
or trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use,
reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and
distribute the Original Code (or portions thereof) with or
without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or
selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,
sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the
Original Code (or portions thereof).

(c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are
effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes
Original Code under the terms of this License.

(d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license
is granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original
Code; 2) separate from the Original Code; or 3) for
infringements caused by: i) the modification of the Original
Code or ii) the combination of the Original Code with other
software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.

Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each
Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
non-exclusive license

(a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, 
modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the
Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions
thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with other
Modifications, as Covered Code and/or as part of a Larger
Work; and

(b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or
selling of Modifications made by that Contributor either
alone and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or
portions of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for
sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1)
Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions
thereof); and 2) the combination of Modifications made by
that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions
of such combination).

(c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are
effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use
of the Covered Code.

(d)  notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license
is granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted
from the Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the
Contributor Version; 3) for infringements caused by: i)
third party modifications of Contributor Version or ii) the
combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with
other software (except as part of the Contributor Version)
or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims infringed by
Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by that
Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

3.1. Application of License.

The Modifications which You create or to which You
contribute are governed by the terms of this License,
including without limitation Section 2.2. The Source Code
version of Covered Code may be distributed only under the
terms of this License or a future version of this License
released under Section 6.1, and You must include a copy of
this License with every copy of the Source Code You
distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any
Source Code version that alters or restricts the applicable
version of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder.
However, You may include an additional document offering the
additional rights described in Section 3.5.

3.2. Availability of Source Code.

Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute
must be made available in Source Code form under the terms
of this License either on the same media as an Executable
version or via an accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism
to anyone to whom you made an Executable version available;
and if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism,
must remain available for at least twelve (12) months after
the date it initially became available, or at least six (6)
months after a subsequent version of that particular
Modification has been made available to such recipients. You
are responsible for ensuring that the Source Code version
remains available even if the Electronic Distribution
Mechanism is maintained by a third party.

3.3. Description of Modifications.

You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to
contain a file documenting the changes You made to create
that Covered Code and the date of any change. You must
include a prominent statement that the Modification is
derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Code provided
by the Initial Developer and including the name of the
Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any
notice in an Executable version or related documentation in
which You describe the origin or ownership of the Covered
Code.

3.4. Intellectual Property Matters.

(a) Third Party Claims.

If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third
party's intellectual property rights is required to exercise
the rights granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or
2.2, Contributor must include a text file with the Source
Code distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim
and the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a
recipient will know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains
such knowledge after the Modification is made available as
described in Section 3.2, Contributor shall promptly modify
the LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes available
thereafter and shall take other steps (such as notifying
appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably
calculated to inform those who received the Covered Code
that new knowledge has been obtained.

(b) Contributor APIs.

If Contributor's Modifications include an application
programming interface ("API") and Contributor has knowledge
of patent licenses which are reasonably necessary to
implement that API, Contributor must also include this
information in the LEGAL file.

(c) Representations.

Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to
Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that
Contributor's Modifications are Contributor's original
creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient rights to
grant the rights conveyed by this License.

3.5. Required Notices.

You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of
the Source Code. If it is not possible to put such notice in
a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then You
must include such notice in a location (such as a relevant
directory) where a user would be likely to look for such a
notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s) You may
add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in
Exhibit A. You must also duplicate this License in any
documentation for the Source Code where You describe
recipients' rights or ownership rights relating to Covered
Code. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,
warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one
or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You may do so
only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial
Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely
clear than any such warranty, support, indemnity or
liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby
agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every
Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial
Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,
support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.

You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if
the requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that
Covered Code, and if You include a notice stating that the
Source Code version of the Covered Code is available under
the terms of this License, including a description of how
and where You have fulfilled the obligations of Section 3.2.
The notice must be conspicuously included in any notice in
an Executable version, related documentation or collateral
in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the
Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of
Covered Code or ownership rights under a license of Your
choice, which may contain terms different from this License,
provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this
License and that the license for the Executable version does
not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the
Source Code version from the rights set forth in this
License. If You distribute the Executable version under a
different license You must make it absolutely clear that any
terms which differ from this License are offered by You
alone, not by the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You
hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every
Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial
Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms
You offer.

3.7. Larger Works.

You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with
other code not governed by the terms of this License and
distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a
case, You must make sure the requirements of this License
are fulfilled for the Covered Code.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms
of this License with respect to some or all of the Covered
Code due to statute, judicial order, or regulation then You
must: (a) comply with the terms of this License to the
maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations
and the code they affect. Such description must be included
in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must be
included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except
to the extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such
description must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of
ordinary skill to be able to understand it.

5. Application of this License.

This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer
has attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered
Code.

6. Versions of the License.

6.1. New Versions.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") may publish revised and/or
new versions of the License from time to time. Each version
will be given a distinguishing version number.

6.2. Effect of New Versions.

Once Covered Code has been published under a particular
version of the License, You may always continue to use it
under the terms of that version. You may also choose to use
such Covered Code under the terms of any subsequent version
of the License published by Sun. No one other than Sun has
the right to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code
created under this License.

6.3. Derivative Works.

If You create or use a modified version of this License
(which you may only do in order to apply it to code which is
not already Covered Code governed by this License), You
must: (a) rename Your license so that the phrases "Sun,"
"Sun Public License," or "SPL" or any confusingly similar
phrase do not appear in your license (except to note that
your license differs from this License) and (b) otherwise
make it clear that Your version of the license contains
terms which differ from the Sun Public License. (Filling in
the name of the Initial Developer, Original Code or
Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit A shall not
of themselves be deemed to be modifications of this
License.)

7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS''
BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE
COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO
THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU.
SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU
(NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME
THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF
THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED
HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

8. TERMINATION.

8.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will
terminate automatically if You fail to comply with terms
herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of
becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses to the Covered
Code which are properly granted shall survive any
termination of this License. Provisions which, by their
nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this
License shall survive.

8.2. If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent
infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions)
against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial
Developer or Contributor against whom You file such action
is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:

(a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly or
indirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rights
granted by such Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or
2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from
Participant terminate prospectively, unless if within 60
days after receipt of notice You either: (i) agree in
writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable
royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made
by such Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim
with respect to the Contributor Version against such
Participant.  If within 60 days of notice, a reasonable
royalty and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon
in writing by the parties or the litigation claim is not
withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under
Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the
expiration of the 60 day notice period specified above.

(b) any software, hardware, or device, other than such
Participant's Contributor Version, directly or indirectly
infringes any patent, then any rights granted to You by such
Participant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are revoked
effective as of the date You first made, used, sold,
distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that
Participant.

8.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against
Participant alleging that such Participant's Contributor
Version directly or indirectly infringes any patent where
such claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement)
prior to the initiation of patent infringement litigation,
then the reasonable value of the licenses granted by such
Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into
account in determining the amount or value of any payment or
license.

8.4. In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2
above,  all end user license agreements (excluding
distributors and resellers) which have been validly granted
by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination
shall survive termination.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL
YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY
DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH
PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,
WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND
ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY
SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY
FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S
NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH
LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR
LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS
EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is
defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of
"commercial computer software" and "commercial computer
software documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R.
12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48
C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S.
Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those
rights set forth herein.

11. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning
subject matter hereof. If any provision of this License is
held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed
only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This
License shall be governed by California law provisions
(except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides
otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions. With
respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen
of, or an entity chartered or registered to do business in
the United States of America, any litigation relating to
this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the
Federal Courts of the Northern District of California, with
venue lying in Santa Clara County, California, with the
losing party responsible for costs, including without
limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and
expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is
expressly excluded. Any law or regulation which provides
that the language of a contract shall be construed against
the drafter shall not apply to this License.

12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each
party is responsible for claims and damages arising,
directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights
under this License and You agree to work with Initial
Developer and Contributors to distribute such responsibility
on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or shall
be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.

Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code
as "Multiple-Licensed". "Multiple-Licensed" means that the
Initial Developer permits you to utilize portions of the
Covered Code under Your choice of the alternative licenses,
if any, specified by the Initial Developer in the file
described in Exhibit A.

Exhibit A -Sun Public License Notice.

The contents of this file are subject to the Sun Public
License Version 1.0 (the "License"); you may not use this
file except in compliance with the License. A copy of the
License is available at http://www.sun.com/

The Original Code is _________________. The Initial
Developer of the Original Code is ___________. Portions
created by ______ are Copyright (C)_________. All Rights
Reserved.

Contributor(s): ______________________________________.

Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under
the terms of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in
which case the provisions of [______] License are applicable 
instead of those above. If you wish to allow use of your
version of this file only under the terms of the [____]
License and not to allow others to use your version of this
file under the SPL, indicate your decision by deleting the
provisions above and replace  them with the notice and other
provisions required by the [___] License. If you do not
delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
version of this file under either the SPL or the [___]
License."

[NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from
the text of the notices in the Source Code files of the
Original Code. You should use the text of this Exhibit A
rather than the text found in the Original Code Source Code
for Your Modifications.]

Please review the complete list of open-source licenses
governing software included in this software.  They can be
found in the THIRDPARTYLICENSE.txt file.

Please review the list of libraries and licenses provided
for use and redistribution by other parties. These libraries
are redistributable subject to the conditions in the
DISTRIBUTION.txt file.

To use the software, you must review, accept and agree to
the terms of the licenses listed above for the NetBeans
software and its individual components.
